2nd wglc polish (#328)
ietf-rats-wg/architecture: draft-ietf-rats-architecture.md

responsible for admission of the device into the network.

## Confidential Machine Learning Model Protection

A device manufacturer wants to protect its intellectual property.
The intellectual property's scope primarily encompasses the machine learning (ML) model that is deployed in the devices purchased by its customers.
The protection goals include preventing attackers, potentially
the customer themselves, from seeing the details of the model.

This typically works by having some protected environment
in the device go through a remote attestation with some manufacturer service
that can assess its trustworthiness.  If remote attestation succeeds,
then the manufacturer service releases either the model, or a key to decrypt
a model already deployed on the Attester in encrypted form, to the requester.

Attester:

: A device desiring to run an ML model.

Relying Party:

: A server or service holding ML models it desires to protect.

## Confidential Data Protection

This is a generalization of the ML model use case above, where
the data can be any highly confidential data, such as health data
about customers, payroll data about employees, future business plans, etc.

> As part of the Remote Attestation Procedures, an assessment is made against a set

Reviewer: Should this change be reverted, per Laurence's proposed rule?

> As part of the Remote Attestation Procedures, an assessment is made against a set

Author: ```suggestion
As part of the attestation procedure, an assessment is made against a set
```

of policies to evaluate the state of the system that is requesting
the confidential data.  Attestation is desired to prevent leaking data via
compromised devices.

Attester:

: An entity desiring to retrieve confidential data.

Relying Party:

: An entity that holds confidential data for release to authorized entities.

## Critical Infrastructure Control

Potentially harmful physical equipment
(e.g., power grid, traffic control, hazardous chemical processing, etc.)
is connected to a network in support of critical infrastructure.  The organization managing such infrastructure
needs to ensure that only authorized code and users can control corresponding critical
processes, and that these processes are protected from unauthorized manipulation or other threats.
When a protocol operation can affect a critical system component of the
infrastructure, devices attached to that critical component require some assurances depending on the security context, including that: a requesting device or application has not been compromised, and the requesters and actors act on applicable policies.

> As such, RATS can be used to only accept commands from requesters

Reviewer: Should RATS be changed back to "remote attestation"?

> As such, RATS can be used to only accept commands from requesters

Author: ```suggestion
As such, remote attestation can be used to only accept commands from requesters
```

In the Fast IDentity Online (FIDO) protocol {{WebAuthN}}, {{CTAP}}, the device in the user's hand authenticates the human user, whether by biometrics (such as fingerprints), or by PIN and password.
FIDO authentication puts a large amount of trust in the device compared to typical password authentication because it is the device that verifies the biometric, PIN and password inputs from the user, not the server.
For the Relying Party to know that the authentication is trustworthy, the Relying Party needs to know that the Authenticator part of the device is trustworthy.

> The FIDO protocol employs Remote Attestation Procedures for this.

Reviewer: I think Laurence's point was this should be reverted since FIDO doesn't use RATS WG output?

> The FIDO protocol employs Remote Attestation Procedures for this.

Author: ```suggestion
The FIDO protocol employs remote attestation for this.
```

~~~~
{:dataflow #dataflow title="Conceptual Data Flow"}

The text below summarizes the activities conducted by the roles illustrated in {{dataflow}}.

An Attester creates Evidence that is conveyed to a Verifier.

A Verifier uses the Evidence, any Reference Values from Reference Value Providers, and any Endorsements from Endorsers,
by applying an Appraisal Policy for Evidence to assess the trustworthiness of the Attester. This activity is called the appraisal of Evidence.

Subsequently, the Verifier generates Attestation Results for use by Relying Parties.
The Appraisal Policy for Evidence
might be obtained from an Endorser along with the Endorsements, and/or might be obtained
via some other mechanism, such as being configured in the Verifier by the Verifier Owner.

A Relying Party uses Attestation Results by applying its own
appraisal policy to make application-specific decisions, such as authorization decisions.
The Appraisal Policy for Attestation Results is configured in the Relying Party by the Relying Party Owner,
and/or are programmed into the Relying Party.

> This activity is called the appraisal of Attestation Results.

Author: ```suggestion
This procedure is called the appraisal of Attestation Results.
```

ROLIE {{RFC8322}},
802.1x, OPC UA {{OPCUA}}, etc.), depending on the use case.

Typically, such protocols already have mechanisms for passing security information for authentication and authorization purposes.
Common formats include JWTs {{RFC7519}}, CWTs {{RFC8392}}, and X.509 certificates.

Retrofitting already deployed protocols with remote attestation requires
adding RATS conceptual messages to the existing data flows. This must be
done in a way that does not degrade the security properties of the systems involved
and should use native extension mechanisms provided by the underlying
protocol. For example, if a TLS handshake is to be extended with
remote attestation capabilities, attestation Evidence may be embedded
in an ad-hoc X.509 certificate extension (e.g., {{TCG-DICE}}), or into a new
TLS Certificate Type (e.g., {{?I-D.tschofenig-tls-cwt}}).

Especially for constrained nodes there is a desire to minimize
the amount of parsing code needed in a Relying Party, in order to both
minimize footprint and to minimize the attack surface. While
it would be possible to embed a CWT inside a JWT, or a JWT inside an
X.509 extension, etc., there is a desire to encode the information

> natively in formats that are already supported by the Relying Party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
natively in a format that is already supported by the Relying Party.
```
Relying Party is singular, and it might only support one format, so avoid implying multiple.
